Basic Plot:

As a young man, Enfundin was a powerful wizard who fought dark creatures and saved damsels in distress from certain doom...and enjoyed it. But time and the nature of man have led him to become disillusioned with the material world which surrounds him and retreat to live the life of a hermit in a forest cave. There he writes books and paints waterfalls, and plans to live out his old age in peace from the rest of the world, his wizardly ways now largely forgotten and a thing of the past. His only friend in the forest is a wood nymph named Wryxan, as adept with a bow as she is beautiful.

When Wryxan disappears, however, Enfundin is forced to choose between the quiet life he loves and rescuing his friend. Learning that she has been kidnapped by the dark mage Calzor, whose forces are ravaging the world, he vows to save her, no matter the cost.

But the wizardly art that came so naturally to him in his youth is no longer and he must first regain it if he is to fight Calzor. Relying on wits alone, he must travel across the war-torn earth to the fabled wizard academy of Quindu, there to be reborn at a terrible price, before returning to confront his enemy at last in the dank mines of Zerathon.

******

Chapters:

Part I - A Wizard Awoken

1. The Hermit

Setting: Enfundin's cave / the forest
Description: The reader meets Enfundin and sees what a jolly life he's leading.

2. Flames over Osfalor

Setting: The village of Osfalor (near the forest)
Description: Calzor's army reaches Osfalor and razes it to the ground. The only person to escape is a boy named Fallion, who sees the flames on his return from collecting firewood and flees back into the forest, chased by some of Calzor's men.

3. Wryxan

Setting: The forest / Wryxan's hut
Description: Enfundin hunts deer with Wryxan and the reader gets to see how fond he is of her. Wryxan returns home alone to find Calzor's men waiting for her. They have failed to find Fallion, but take her instead.

4. ?

Setting: The forest / Wryxan's hut
Description: Fallion stumbles about the forest, desperately trying to evade capture. At length he comes across Wryxan's hut, but seeing her returning, he hides in the undergrowth and sees what happens. When they have gone, he hides in the hut as the night draws in around him.

5. ?

Setting: Wryxan's hut
Description: Enfundin comes looking for Wryxan when he doesn't find her in her usual haunts. Finding her gone, he encounters Fallion, who tells him what has happened. Enfundin vows to save her and comes up with an audacious plan. Together with Fallion, he embarks on the long and difficult journey to Quindu, the fabled wizard academy that lies at the farthest edge of the known world.

6. ?

Setting: Calzor's palace / the mines of Zerathon
Description: Wryxan is brought before Calzor and imprisoned in the mines of Zerathon. Wryxan defies him and tells that him Enfundin will save her. Calzor sends men to hunt Enfundin down.

7. The Road to Menreith

Setting: The road between the forest and the coastal port of Menreith
Description: Enfundin and Fallion evade capture by Calzor's men on the way to Menreith, where they seek a ship to leave the southern isles behind.

8. The Enotaur

Setting: Menreith
Description: The innkeeper tells them of a terrifying beast lurking in the winding alleys of Menreith. Enfundin and Fallion find a ship - the Antler - but the captain refuses to sail until morning. Returning to their inn for the night, they encounter the enotaur, a foul shadowy creature with flaming breath and clawed hands. Unable to fight such a monster in his present weakened state, Enfundin lures it down to the docks, so terrifying the ship's captain that he immediately sets sail for the open sea. Enfundin and Fallion swim aboard.

Part II - The Journey to Quindu

9. ?

Setting: Calzor's palace
Description: Calzor hears of the events in Menreith and realises that Enfundin must travel to Quindu to regain his powers. He taunts Wryxan, telling her that Enfundin will never make it there alive.

10. The Antler

Setting: On board the Antler
Description: Not long out of port, the Antler runs into a powerful storm, sweeping many of the hands overboard. Damaged and undermanned, she limps to the peaceful-looking island of Viusa for repairs.

11. The Ruler of Viusa

Setting: The island of Viusa
Description: The villagers are initially friendly and offer to repair the ship, but by unfortunate circumstance, Nalbar, the overlord of Viusa, is a warlock in league with Calzor who has heard of Enfundin's narrow escape from Menreith. Captured by his guards, Enfundin and Fallion can only watch helplessly as the Antler makes a speedy departure from the port, followed by a hail of arrows.

12. The Warlock's Labyrinth

Setting: Nalbar's palace
Description: Enfundin and Fallion are brought before Nalbar, who decides to toy with them before turning them over to Calzor. Venturing into the warlock's labyrinth, a terrible maze of underground passages in which evil dwells at every turn, the pair sense one, slim chance of escape.

13. Captain Terraclee

Setting: The island of Viusa
Description: Emerging from a long forgotten tunnel into sunlight, Enfundin and Fallion must find a ship if they are to escape from Viusa. TODO

...

Part III - The Mines of Zerathon

TODO

******

==========
The Hermit
==========

Deep within the sprawling forest of Elucippa, there lay a hidden waterfall. There, the dappled light shone joyfully through the leaves; splintered by the water, it twisted and turned, bathing the rocks in a soft multi-coloured glow. There, the crash of water and the chirping of the birds mingled into one, and the air was laden heavy with the scent of the new spring. There, an old man could find peace.

He sat there now upon a wizened tree stump, brush in hand, his keen eyes darting between the waterfall and the canvas perched precariously on the awkwardly-placed easel in front of him. A thick white beard clung rather desperately to his face, and his hooded brown robe was fraying somewhat at the edges, but, beneath his bushy brows, his eyes twinkled with the happiness of a man who at long last was in his element. His brush flicked carefully across the canvas: a dab here, a thicker stroke there, perhaps a smudge now and then with a wrinkled finger to add variety, all the time soaking up the atmosphere of this, his favourite retreat. For Enfundin, this forest was home.

He felt the warmth of the ground through his bare feet and the grass rustling against his toes. Occasionally an unripened nut would fall to either side of him from the branching hazel above his head, and he would glance up to see a squirrel looking somewhat crestfallen. Shaking his head rather amusedly, he would return to his work. He had never understood why squirrels did that.

At length, feeling the first spots of rain upon his brow, he packed up his easel and, pulling his thick woollen hood over his head, headed for home. There would be other days for painting.

***

Enfundin lived in a cave at the western edge of the forest. Set within a lightly-wooded valley, through which a quiet brook gently traced its meandering path, the cave had been damp and uninhabitable when he first discovered it. But with time and patience, he had slowly transformed it into a dwelling with some small degree of comfort. The roof still leaked slightly from time to time, but he was not a fastidious man, and was content to let it be.

Upon entering, a visitor - though he had few enough of those - would have observed it was a pleasant place. The floor was thickly covered with bracken, and many of the forest pictures he had painted covered the walls. To the left, a thin passageway receded into the darkness, marked only by a brightly painted sign saying "This way to the wine cellar!". To the right lay a side-cave where he retired to sleep. A recess in the back of the cave held a small fireplace, from which smoke could swirl lazily upwards through a rather makeshift sort of chimney in the rock. But it was the centre of the room that held his pride and joy: a beautifully-carved table and chairs he had fashioned from a fallen oak. The legs of the table were covered with all manner of animal carvings. At the top, birds flew lazily through the still air; at the bottom, deer wandered silently through the glade.

All in all, it was a homely little dwelling, and Enfundin was happy there. He entered now, wet to the bone, and rested his easel carefully against the wall. Lighting the fire, he threw off his sodden robe, lay down upon the bracken in front of the hearth and faded off to sleep.

===================
Flames over Osfalor
===================

The village of Osfalor was nestled against the northern rim of the forest, its southernmost houses all but enveloped by the trees. To the west, the snow-tipped peaks of the great Ilsian mountains rose, tall and shining, into the afternoon sky. Northwards, the rolling grasslands disappeared into the haze towards Isthenior, whilst to the south-east, the winding road led interminably to the bustling port of Menreith, and the sea.

This was Fallion's village, and it was homeward he wandered now, his feet squelching in the grime beneath the weight of the fallen wood he carried in a large wicker basket on his back. He was a young lad, no more than perhaps twelve or thirteen years of age, yet broad-shouldered and strong for all that. His light brown hair was tousled, and fell untidily across his muddied face. The ground had not yet dried from the previous day's rain, and occasionally one leg or the other would sink deeper into the boggy earth, casting him forwards and causing his load to rain unceremoniously about his ears. Cursing good-humouredly, he would free himself and gather it up again, revelling somewhat in the dirt he accumulated in the process, as small boys do.

He paused awhile beside a little stream as it carved its audacious path through the undergrowth. There was no hurry: his father had instructed him to be home by four, and the sun had only lately passed its zenith. Laying his basket to one side,  he sat down between the protruding roots of a large oak, kicked off his muddy boots and bathed his aching toes in the cool water.


***

In Osfalor, the fires still burned. Tall pillars of smoke rose high into the darkening sky from what remained of the thatched rooves of the cottages. A few hours before, the village had been a quiet backwater, where the people kept cattle and pigs, and lived out their lives in relative obscurity. Now the cattle were dead and the pigs had become bacon, and unknown men clad in chainmail sat casually around an open fire having their fill, whilst others collected more firewood and searched for ale. Here and there villagers lay where they had fallen, crumpled and forlorn beneath the noonday sun. None had been spared, from the elderly Xanthor, struck down trying to reason with the invaders, to little Elsion, who had been trying to save the family sow.

??, the man who had killed her, turned now from his seat beside the fire. He was a thick-set fellow, TODO
